.\" Copyright (c) 2023 Rodolphe Bréard <v.man.fcb3mbje@breard.tf>
.\"
.\" Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
.\" notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
.\" without any warranty.
.Dd Aug 25, 2023
.Dt FILTER-SAKE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm filter-sake
.Nd Sub-address key filter for OpenSMTPD
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a|--address Ar STRING
.Op Fl A|--address-file Ar FILE
.Op Fl s|--separator Ar CHAR
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a filter for OpenSMTPD that enforce the presence of a validation code in sub-addresses.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl a, -address Ar STRING
An address where the filter will enforce the presence of a valid verification code.
See the
.Sx ADDRESS FORMAT
section to learn about the format that is expected.
This option may be specified multiple times.
.It Fl A, -address-file Ar FILE
File where each line is an address as specified in
.Dq --address .
Empty lines and lines starting with the
.Sq #
character are ignored.
.It Fl s, -separator Ar CHAR
The sub-address delimiter character.
Default is
.Sq + .
This value must match the character defined in
.Pa smtpd.conf
using
.Dq smtp sub-addr-delim .
.El
.Sh ADDRESS FORMAT
An address must be composed of the following elements:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
the local part
.It
(optional) an
.Sq @
followed by a domain name
.It
the
.So
:
.Sc
character
.It
the private key in base64 (with padding)
.El
.Pp
Specifying a domain name configures the filter to match addresses on both the local part and the specified domain name.
If no domain name is specified, the match will be on the local part only, and therefore all domain names will be accepted.
.Sh PRIVATE KEY GENERATION
Privates keys must have a length of either 128 bits (16 bytes) or 256 bits (32 bytes).
Unless you have some very specific needs, you should choose a 128 bits key.
.Pp
To generate a key, it is recommended to use
.Dq openssl rand -base64 16 .
.Sh EXAMPLE OPENSMTPD CONFIGURATION
The following example shows how you can integrate filter-sake in your
.Pa smtpd.conf :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# Sub-addresses
smtp sub-addr-delim "+"
filter "sake" proc-exec "filter-sake -s '+' -a 'a@example.org:11voiefK5PgCX5F1TTcuoQ==' -a 'b:3pUdigGQNXYBeKJdYDdERQ=='"

# Tables
table domains { "example.org", "example.com" }
table vusers { "test" = "1000:100:/var/vmail/test", "b" = "1000:100:/var/vmail/b" }
table aliases { "a" = "test" }

# Listening
listen on 127.0.0.1 hostname localhost filter "sake"
listen on ::1 hostname localhost filter "sake"

# Delivering
action "deliver" maildir userbase <vusers> alias <aliases>
match from any for domain <domains> action "deliver"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smtpd.conf 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Rodolphe Bréard
.Aq v.man.fcb3mbje@breard.tf
